Ben 10 is an American animated superhero action-comedy television series and a reboot of the 2005 Cartoon Network series of the same name.[1] The series premiered in Australia, New Zealand and Asia-Pacific on 1 October 2016, and premiered in the United States on April 10, 2017.[2]

A film based on the series, Ben 10 Versus the Universe: The Movie, was announced on February 19, 2020 and was aired on October 10, 2020.[3] 

Building on the highly successful franchise about kid hero Ben Tennyson, Ben 10 introduces a re-imagined Ben, his cousin Gwen, and Grandpa Max, as they travel the country during summer vacation. When Ben finds the Omnitrix, a mysterious watch that transforms him into 10 different aliens, a world of extraterrestrial superpowers opens up to him. The series is produced by Cartoon Network Studios and created and executive produced by Man of Action Entertainment (Big Hero 6, Generator Rex and the original four Ben 10 shows in their shared continuity), with John Fang (Mixels, Generator Rex) on board as supervising producer.
Season 1 (2017)

Ten-year-old Ben Tennyson has spent his summer vacation traveling across the country with his cousin Gwen and Grandpa Max, in an RV nicknamed the Rustbucket. However, after coming across a strange high-tech watch known as the Omnitrix, which enables him to transform into 10 alien heroes, he finds himself in the position of a superhero. At each place his family stops, Ben goes from trying to find a source of entertainment to doing battle against supervillains such as the mad scientist Dr. Animo, the dark sorcerer Hex, the psychotic clown Zombozo, the technology-loathing Steam-Smythe, and the emotionless Weatherheads, amongst other threats both big and small. Despite having lots to learn, he hones his hero skills with Gwen and Max's help.

While battling one of Animo's mutant creations during a trip to Portland, Ben unlocks an 11th alien he names Gax, a Chimera Sui Generis with laser vision and great strength. However, unlocking this form seems to have an odd effect on the Omnitrix, leaving him unable to control his transformations. To determine the source of this issue, Max calls in his old friend Phil. Ben finds himself under attack from three alien bounty hunters named Tetrax, Kraab, and Sixsix. While he's able to fend them off, he meets a mysterious aged Chimera Sui Generis calling himself "Vil", who trains Ben to use Gax's powers. However, it turns out "Vil" and Gax are the two halves of alien conqueror Vilgax, who absorbs Gax's power to restore himself to full strength. The bounty hunter trio were hired to prevent Vilgax from reforming and thus team up with Ben to prevent Vilgax from destroying the Omnitrix. However, Vilgax wins this battle, dispatching the hunters and leaving Ben rapidly changing between his alien forms and unable to return to human form.

Vilgax intends to use lava from Mount Megaladon to recharge his ship and restart his conquering spree. Ben, regardless of his current state, engages Vilgax in battle; while initially hampered by his inability to predict which form he'll become next, Ben is able to turn the tides and defeat Vilgax by using Upgrade to upgrade the Omnitrix, supposedly sacrificing the Galvanic Mechamorph.
Season 2 (2018)

The Tennysons continue to visit some of America's greatest tourist spots, as Ben continues to take his hero career to new heights. As his enemies grow stronger, Ben is aided by the appearance of new "Omni-Enhanced" versions of his alien forms, who possess a strange blue energy that packs a major punch in battle. He also has unlocked a new alien hero whom he dubs "Shock Rock", who is composed of the same blue energy.

Meanwhile, Vilgax, still seeking a method to escape Earth, forms alliances with some of Ben's enemies to harness the Omnitrix's power. Team Tennyson make it their mission to defeat Vilgax and stop his devious machinations from seeing light.

However, following a battle with Vilgax's war-bot, Ben learns that his new forms are a sign of a bigger threat. Shock Rock is a Fulmini, whose DNA pod replaced Upgrade following his sacrifice. The Fulmini Empire and their leader, the High Override, have been manipulating Ben to invade Earth and use the Omnitrix as a gateway. Ben and Vilgax team up, entering the Omnitrix and allying with Glitch, a fusion between Ben and Upgrade's DNA. Though the High Override banishes Vilgax to the Null Void and turns Ben into his mind controlled warrior, Team Tennyson are able to free Ben from his control and purge the Fulmini from the Omnitrix, causing it to reboot. Glitch survives the reboot by escaping the Omnitrix, joining the family.
Season 3 (2019)

After a serious battle with the High Override, Glitch merges with the Rustbuggy and becomes part of the Tennyson family. Ben gets frustrated when the Omnitrix reboots for a week, but it activates just as the Tennyson family is about to do some world traveling. Phil has created a helicopter called the "Omni-Copter" for the Tennyson Trio so they can travel around the world. Ben also gains access to three new aliens: Rath, Slapback, and Humungosaur, who replace Grey Matter, Overflow, and Wildvine. With Vilgax in the Null Void, Ben has a new enemy to fight: Kevin Levin, who has a variant of the Omnitrix called the Antitrix that gives him access to altered versions of Ben's aliens. Meanwhile, a mysterious villain called the Forever Knight gathers several of Ben's villains to help him go back in time and prevent aliens from making contact Earth.

Throughout the season, the Forever Knight tests Team Tennyson's enemies to determine those he needs for this goal: the final roster consists of Kevin, Charmcaster, Vin Ethanol, Billy Billions, Simon Sez, and a disillusioned Ben. Kevin, angry at the Forever Knight for discarding him during their plan’s final stage, teams up with Gwen to help Ben prevent the Forever Knight from altering history. In the end, both Kevin and the Knight end up trapped in the void within time and space.

Ben and Gwen make it back to the present and head back to America aboard the Omni-Copter alongside Grandpa Max, Phil, Vin, and Simon, the latter two being convinced to join Team Tennyson. Also, Billy and Charmcaster get taken into custody, and the Forever Knight’s helmet emerges from the portal on its own.
Season 4 (2020)
In the start of Season 4, Ben unlocks the "Omni-Kix" feature on the Omnitrix, thus giving his aliens robotic armor; and later unlocks the alien Jetray, who replaces Stinkfly. He also reunites and occasionally teams up with a reluctant Kevin 11, following his surprising return from the time tunnel Forever Knight was trapped in. 

Main

    Ben Tennyson (voiced by Tara Strong) – The ten-year-old cousin of Gwen and grandson of Max Tennyson. He wields the Omnitrix, a watch-like device which can turn him into various extraterrestrial creatures.
    Gwen Tennyson (voiced by Montserrat Hernandez) – Ben's cousin, who uses her resourcefulness, keen intellect. and cunning to help in stopping villains. She has yet to develop and utilize her strong innate magical/mystical abilities.
    Max Tennyson (voiced by David Kaye) – Ben and Gwen's paternal grandfather.
    Glitch (voiced by Tara Strong) - A fusion of Ben and Upgrade's DNA. He originally maintained the Omnitrix from within before being freed, albeit trapped in the form of the Rustbuggy, in "Innervasion". In Ben 10 Versus the Universe: The Movie, his Rustbuggy form is destroyed by Vilgax though he survives by reformatting himself into experimental battle armor used by Kevin, only to be destroyed again. Though Phil discovers he is still salvageable.

Omnitrix Aliens

    Four Arms (voiced by John DiMaggio) - A Tetramand, a red four-armed humanoid from the desert planet Khoros whose main ability is superhuman strength.
    Heatblast (voiced by Daryl Sabara) - A Pyronite, a magma-based humanoid from the star Pyros whose main ability is control over fire.
    XLR8 (voiced by Josh Keaton) - A Kineceleran, a blue-and-black humanoid velociraptor-like alien from the stormy planet Kinet whose main ability is superhuman speed.
    Diamondhead (voiced by Roger Craig Smith) - A Petrosapien, a humanoid alien made of teal crystal from the crystal planet Petropia whose main ability is generating crystal projectiles and structures.
    Cannonbolt (voiced by Travis Willingham) - An Arburian Pelarota, an armored pillbug-like alien from the beachy planet Arburia whose main ability is rolling into a sphere.
    Upgrade (voiced by David Sobolov) - A Galvanic Mechamorph, a purple technoorganic blob-like alien from the moon Galvan B whose main ability is technological possession.
    Grey Matter (voiced by Todd Haberkorn) - A Galvan, a small grey frog-like alien from the planet Galvan Prime whose main ability is his high intelligence.
    Overflow (voiced by Max Mittelman) - A Cascan, an armored water-based alien from the planet Cascareau whose main ability is hydrokinesis.
    Wildvine (voiced by David Hornsby) - A Florauna, a plant-based humanoid from the planet Flors Verdance whose main ability is plant manipulation.
    Stinkfly (voiced by Greg Cipes) - A Lepidopterran, a humanoid blue dragonfly-like alien from the swamp planet Lepidopterra whose main abilities are flight and shooting goo from his shoulders.
    Gax (voiced by Yuri Lowenthal) - A Chimera Sui Generis, a green squid-like humanoid from the planet Vilgaxia whose main abilities are his laser vision and prehensile tentacle-like arms.
    Shock Rock (voiced by David Kaye) - A Fulmini, a stone-armored energy being from the planet Fulmas who can manipulate electrical energy. He first appears in season 2, replacing Upgrade.
    Slapback (voiced by Todd Haberkorn) - An Ekoleptoid, a frog-like alien from the planet Ekoplekton whose main abilities are his self-duplication and density alteration. He first appears in season 3, replacing Grey Matter.
    Humungousaur (voiced by David Kaye) - A Vaxasaurian, a humanoid dinosaur-like alien from the planet Terradino whose main abilities are his massive size and tail mace. He first appears in season 3, replacing Wildvine.
    Rath (voiced by Dee Bradley Baker) - An Appoplexian, a tiger-like humanoid from the planet Appoplexia whose main abilities are his wrist claws and extreme rage. He first appears in season 2, being used by Animo, though Ben gains access to him in season 3, replacing Overflow.
    Jetray (voiced by Dee Bradley Baker) - An Aerophibian, a red manta ray-like alien from the planet Aeropela whose main abilities are his flight, laser vision and tail, and adaptability to any environment. He first appears in season 4, replacing Stinkfly.
    Goop (voiced by Dee Bradley Baker) - A Polymorph, a goo-like alien from the planet Viscosia whose main abilities are his indestructibility and shapeshifting. He first appears in Ben 10 Versus the Universe: The Movie.
    Way Big (voiced by Roger Craig Smith) - A To'kustar, a massive, muscular alien born in a cosmic storm that serves as Ben's biggest and most powerful alien form to date. It was unlocked by Azmuth so Ben could fight a gigantified Vilgax in the final battle of Ben 10 Versus the Universe: The Movie. His powers include super strength, stamina, speed, and cosmic energy blasts. It is unknown whether or not he will be featured in Season 5 after the movie's release.

Villains

    Vilgax (voiced by Yuri Lowenthal) – A Chimera Sui Generis warlord and conqueror who tries to take the Omnitrix from Ben to take over the universe, but ends up stranded on Earth after his defeat by Ben in "Omni-Tricked", and later trapped in the Null Void in "Innervasion". He later escapes from the Null Void and attacks the Earth In Ben 10 vs. The Universe: The Movie, which he is revealed to have helped create the Omnitrix and manipulated Kevin into creating the Antitrix. He is eventually defeated by Way Big and taken into galactic custody.
    The High Override (voiced by Fred Tatasciore) - The villainous emperor of the Fulmini, who first appears in the season two finale "Innervasion”.
    The Forever Knight (voiced by Roger Craig Smith) - A mysterious armored knight who plots to alter the course of history and remove the presence of aliens from Earth. Over the course of Season 3, he recruits enemies of Team Tennyson to join his cause, including Kevin, Charmcaster, Billy Billions, Vin Ethanol, Simon Sez, and a delusional Ben. He is trapped across time by a redeemed Kevin as of "Roundabout", though his helmet escapes and gains sentience before being captured in "Cosplay Day".
    Kevin Levin (voiced by Greg Cipes) - Ben's former school bully and the wielder of an Omnitrix derivative called the Antitrix, which allows him to turn into genetically altered versions of Ben's aliens, plus a new eleventh alien named Bashmouth. He becomes a reluctant ally on occasion following the last episodes of Season 3. As noted by Forever Knight and Charmcaster, he secretly harbours a crush on Gwen Tennyson and has concerns for her safety.
    Maurice (voiced by John DiMaggio) – A human-headed cockroach who loves money and filth.
        Sydney (voiced by Travis Willingham) – A cockroach-headed human who is Maurice's henchman.
    Steam Smythe (voiced by Roger Craig Smith) – A Victorian-themed man with a British accent who dislikes various elements of modern-day life, and often uses steampunk gadgets to attack.
    Hex (voiced by Robin Atkin Downes) – A powerful sorcerer who desires world domination. He wields a group of magical artifacts called the Charms of Bezel and a purple-and-gold-striped spellbook, the latter of which eventually falls into Charmcaster's possession.
    Doctor Animo (voiced by Dwight Schultz) – A mad scientist who desires to turn the world into a new age of evolution with his mind-controlled mutant animals.
    Zombozo (voiced by John DiMaggio) – An evil clown who commonly uses mind tricks and hypnotism for his schemes.
        Frightwig (voiced by Jessica DiCicco) – A 10-year-old girl and circus freak with prehensile red hair and enhanced agility.
        Acid Breath (voiced by Josh Keaton) – A circus freak who can generate acid.
        Thumbskull (voiced by John DiMaggio) – A bald-headed muscular man with super strength and a naillike growth on his head.
    Lagrange (voiced by David Kaye) – An illegal racer with a heavy French accent who is typically seen driving a red race car. He first appears in "Drive You Crazy."
    Charmcaster (voiced by Tara Strong) - Gwen's rival and an apprentice magician who, unlike her original counterpart, is portrayed as a regular human carrying a spell book instead of a sorceress from another dimension.
    Billy Billions (voiced by Gunnar Sizemore) – A rich kid who loves to get his way. His weapons usually involve an assortment of high-tech robots.
    Solar and Polar Twain (voiced by Todd Haberkorn and Tom Kenny) - Twin scientists who never get along with each other. Their plans for world domination usually have them plan to split it 50/50.
    Michael Morningstar (voiced by Drake Bell in "Bright Lights, Black Hearts", and Yuri Lowenthal in "The Charm Offensive") – A teen actor from Gwen's favorite TV series, the "Un-Alivers", who turns out to be a vampire that feeds on the life force of his followers. In "The Charm Offensive", Charmcaster imprisons him in her spellbook as punishment for exploiting her.
    Xingo (voiced by Tom Kenny) - An anthropomorphic purple fox who is Ben's favorite cartoon character and is not bound to normal physics.
    Lord Decibel (voiced by David Kaye) – A sadistic DJ who can control sound and music.
    The Weatherheads — A group of emotionless alien robots who can manipulate various aspects of weather.
        Gust-O (voiced by Eric Bauza in season 1, and Jeff Bennett in seasons 2 through 4) — The leader of the trio, who wears a light blue tie and can manipulate wind.
        Shock-O (voiced by David Kaye in Season 1, and Jeff Bennett in seasons 2 through 4) — The tallest and thinnest member of the group, who wears a yellow tie and can manipulate electricity.
        Hail-O (voiced by Jeff Bennett) — The shortest and stumpiest of the trio, who wears a blue tie and can manipulate ice.
        Sunny (voiced by Tara Strong) — The Weatherhead Trio's superior, who can manipulate fire. She terminates them in season 4 after they fail her for the last time and seems to display more emotion than the three of them combined.

Antitrix aliens

Unlike the Omnitrix aliens they are modeled after, the Antitrix aliens are all voiced by Greg Cipes and sound just like their user Kevin except Alien V and Anti-Vilgax, who are voiced by Yuri Lowenthal and sound just like their user Vilgax.

    Quad Smack - Kevin's version of Four Arms, who is colored purple and has spiked reddish-black armor.
    Hot Shot - Kevin's version of Heatblast, who is significantly larger and has an olive green chest.
    Rush - Kevin's version of XLR8, who is colored green and has silver armor.
    Crystalfist - Kevin's version of Diamondhead, who is made of purple crystal rather than teal.
    Wreckingbolt - Kevin's version of Cannonbolt, who has spiked armor plating.
    Bootleg - Kevin's version of Upgrade, who is colored blue and has a red eye and spiked armor.
    Dark Matter - Kevin's version of Grey Matter, who is significantly larger and has pyrokinetic abilities.
    Undertow - Kevin's version of Overflow, who is bulkier and can generate green slime instead of water.
    Thornblade - Kevin's version of Wildvine, who has two thorny vines on his back instead of seeds.
    Skunkmoth - Kevin's version of Stinkfly, who is significantly larger and colored red with golden armor.
    Bashmouth - A wolf-like alien that seems to be Kevin’s version of Rath, being able to generate metal.
    Alien V - A stronger version of Vilgax fused with Celestialsapien DNA, whose body is black with red outlines.
    Anti-Vilgax- A fusion of all of Kevin's aliens in Vilgax's body.

